'\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH x2goserver.conf 5 "Jan 2013" "Version 4.0.1.15" "X2Go Server Configuration"
.SH NAME
x2goserver.conf \- X2Go Server Main Configuration File
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad 1
x2goserver.conf

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBx2goserver.conf\fR is the main configuration file for X2Go Server and the \fBX2Go::Server\fR Perl API.
.SH SECTIONS
The \fBx2goserver.conf\fR's configuration file format is an INI-based configuration format. It falls
apart into sections and options with their values.

    [section1]
    sec1option1 = valueA
    sec1option2 = valueB
    ...

    [section2]
    sec2option1 = valueC
    sec2option2 = valueD
    ...

.SH SECTION [limit users]
In this section you can list up Posix users known to the system and specify the max. number of allowed
simultaneous X2Go sessions in an X2Go Server farm.
.PP
.SH SECTION [limit groups]
In this section you can list up Posix group names known to the system and specify the max. number of allowed
simultaneous X2Go sessions in an X2Go Server farm. The session limitation applies to all users in the specified
groups.
.PP
If individual users are listed in section \fI[limit users]\fR and some of their groups are listed in
section \fI[limit groups]\fR, then the maximum value of allowed sessions will be chosen.
.PP
If a user is a member of several of the specified groups under section \fI[limit groups]\fR, then the number
of allowed simultaneous X2Go sessions for a certain user will be derived from the group with the
most allowed sessions found under this section.
.PP
.SH SECTION [log]
The \fI[log]\fR's section only option is the \fIloglevel\fR option. Allowed values are:
.TP 5
    emerg, alert, crit, err, warning, notice, info, debug.
.PP
The \fIloglevel\fR option controls the verbosity of the X2Go::Server Perl functions. The log output
appears via LOCAL7 (normally: /var/log/syslog).
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE
The below configuration file is the default after installation of X2Go Server:

    [limit users]
    #user-foo=1

    [limit groups]
    #bar-group=1

    [log]
    # possible levels are:
    #   emerg, alert, crit, err, warning, notice, info, debug
    loglevel=notice

.SH AUTHOR
This manual has been written by Mike Gabriel <mike.gabriel@das-netzwerkteam.de> for the X2Go project
(http://www.x2go.org).
