'\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH x2goresume-session 8 "Jul 2018" "Version 4.1.0.2" "X2Go Server Tool"
.SH NAME
x2goresume-session \- Resume X2Go Session
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBx2goresume-session\fR  \fI<session_id>\fR \ \\
                    \fI<geometry>\fR \ \\
                    \fI<link_quality>\fR \ \\
                    \fI<nx_pack_meth>\fR \ \\
                    \fI<kblayout>\fR \ \\
                    \fI<kbtype>\fR \ \\
                    \fI<setkbd>\fR \ \\
                    \fI<clipboardmode>\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBx2goresume-session\fR resumes the suspended session with session ID \fI<session_id>\fR.
.PP
This command is normally issued
by an X2Go client application with X2Go user privileges.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\*(T<\fI\<session_id>\fR\*(T>
The session ID (or session name) of the suspend session that is to be resumed.
.TP
\*(T<\fI\<geometry>\fR\*(T>
Session window size on screen (allowed values: <width>x<height> or fullscreen).
.TP
\*(T<\fI\<link_quality>\fR\*(T>
Any value out of: modem, isdn, adsl, wan or lan.
.TP
\*(T<\fI\<nx_pack_method>\fR\*(T>
NX compression method (see below for possible values).
.TP
\*(T<\fI\<cache_type+dpi>\fR\*(T>
Cache type and color depth for X2Go session window. The most common value is: unix-kde-depth_24 where ,,24'' is the color depth in bit.
.TP
\*(T<\fI\<kblayout>\fR\*(T>
Keyboard layout (e.g. us, de, etc.).
.TP
\*(T<\fI\<kbtype>\fR\*(T>
Keyboard type/model (e.g. pc105/us).
.TP
\*(T<\fI\<setkbd>\fR\*(T>
Force setting keyboard layout and type within the X2Go session on startup. Values: 0 or 1.
.TP
\*(T<\fI\<clipboardmode>\fR\*(T>
The session's clipboard mode. Possible values: both, server, client, none. Allows one to configure clipboard security
per session via the connecting X2Go client. If the clipboard parameter is set server-side in /etc/x2go/x2goagent.options,
then that value will override client-side settings.
.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBx2goresume-session\fR reports to stderr if resuming of session \fI<session_id>\fR failed. This
very probably means that the session's X agent has died, so the session \fI<session_id>\fR will
be marked as finished in the X2Go session database.
.PP
If everything works out well, a list of session attributes is returned after successful session resumption. 
Session attributes will be presented on a line-by-line basis:

    field 01: \fI<graphics_port>\fR
    field 02: \fI<sound_port>\fR
    field 03: \fI<sshfs_port>\fR
    field 04: \fI<tekictrl_port>\fR (if Telekinesis is available/enabled)
    field 04: \fI<tekidata_port>\fR (if Telekinesis is available/enabled)

.PP
As exitcode \fBx2goresume-session\fR always returns 0.
.SH SEE ALSO
x2gostartagent(8), x2goruncommand(8), x2gosuspend-session(8), x2goterminate-session(8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual has been written by Mike Gabriel <mike.gabriel@das-netzwerkteam.de> for the X2Go project
(http://www.x2go.org).
