'\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH x2gosessiontitle 8 "Nov 2011" "Version 3.0.99.x" "X2go Server Tool (Extension)"
.SH NAME
x2gosessiontitle \- Render a custom session window title for X2Go sessions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
.nf
x2gosessiontitle <session_id> <cmd> <session_type> <window_type> \\
                 [<shadow_user> <shadow_requesting_user> <shadow_mode>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBx2gosessiontitle\fR may only be called from within the \fBx2gostartagent\fR script. If called
otherwise, nothing will happen.
.PP
When called from within \fBx2gostartagent\fR the \fBx2gosessiontitle\fR script checks if the
environment variable $X2GO_FEATURE_SESSIONTITLE is set to ,,enabled''. 
.PP
If so, a custom session window title for the X2Go session window is generated. The script also
allows the environment variable $X2GO_SESSION_WINDOW_TITLE to be set by the X2Go client that
is launching the session and thus gives server-side support for custom X2Go session window names.
.PP
\fINOTE\fR: This feature at the moment (2011-11-30) only works with PyHoca client implementations. The
native X2Go Client demands a session window title of the form: X2GO-<session_id>.
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBx2gosessiontitle\fR echoes the custom session window title to STDOUT (without line break at the end).
Its exitcode is always equal to 0.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This manual has been written by Mike Gabriel <mike.gabriel@das-netzwerkteam.de> for the X2go project
(http://www.x2go.org).
