'\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH x2goserver-run-extensions 8 "Mar 2012" "Version 4.0.x.y" "X2Go Server Tool"
.SH NAME
x2goserver-run-extensions \- Run X2Go Server Extensions
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
x2goserver-run-extensions <session_id> <modality>

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBx2goserver-run-extensions\fR is called from within a number of X2Go Server core scripts.
.PP
\fIWARNING:\fR Do not call it directly unless you really know what you are doing.
.PP
\fBx2goserver-run-extensions\fR executes scripts that have been
provided by third-party X2Go extension packages.
.PP
What this man page is about is not the script usage itself but the way of how to provide X2Go server
extensions and features without the need to change the core X2Go server scripts.
.SH MODALITIES
\fBx2goserver-run-extensions\fR is called with user privileges, as first cmd line argument the session ID is provided
as the second cmd line argument a (what we call it) modality is provided.
.PP
This modality tells \fBx2goserver-run-extensions\fR at what stage of an X2go
session startup, resumption, suspension or termination the calling script currently is at.
.PP
Calling X2Go Server core scripts currently are: \fBx2gostartagent(8)\fR, \fBx2goruncommand(8)\fR, \fBx2goresume-session(8)\fR,
\fBx2gosuspend-session(8)\fR or \fBx2goterminate-session(8)\fR.
.PP
The modality names all refer to a sub-directory of the path:

  \fI<libexecdir>/x2go/extensions\fR,

where <libexecdir> is /usr/libexec/x2go or /usr/lib/x2go on commonly-used GNU/Linux systems.
.PP
In any of these sub-directories third-party X2Go extension packages can place scripts or binaries that will then get executed by the core X2Go server
commands, either before or after the essential functionality (e.g. x2goagent startup, x2goagent suspension, x2goagent resumption, etc.) or on failure of that
essential functionality.
.PP
The following table shows the available modalities, the calling scripts and the location where to place third-party extension scripts:


 CALLING SCRIPT        MODALITY NAMES    EXTENSION SCRIPTS LOCATION
 --------------        ---------------   --------------------------
 x2gostartagent        pre-start         extensions/pre-start.d/
                       post-start        extensions/post-start.d/
                       fail-start        extensions/fail-start.d/
 x2goruncommand        pre-runcommand    extensions/pre-runcommand.d/
                       post-runcommand   extensions/post-runcommand.d/
                       fail-runcommand   extensions/fail-runcommand.d/
 x2goresume-session    pre-resume        extensions/pre-resume.d/
                       post-resume       extensions/post-resume.d/
                       fail-resume       extensions/fail-resume.d/
 x2gosuspend-session   pre-suspend       extensions/pre-suspend.d/
                       post-suspend      extensions/post-suspend.d/
                       fail-suspend      extensions/fail-suspend.d/
 x2goterminate-session pre-terminate     extensions/pre-terminate.d/
                       post-terminate    extensions/post-terminate.d/
                       fail-terminate    extensions/fail-terminate.d/

\fIIMPORTANT:\fR When providing X2Go Server extensions by this mechanism, please pretty well make sure that these extension scripts of yours that you place
in either of the above folders do under no circumstance fail during execution. Return codes are ignored and failures are therefore not (yet) propagated.
.SH EXECUTION OF EXTENSIONS
Scripts (or binaries) that have been placed into one of the pre/post/fail modality folders (see above) are executed in alpha-numerical sorting order.
.PP
Extensions will only get executed if their file names start with three digits.
This restriction is there to make sure that X2Go Server extensions get executed in the correct/wanted order:
.PP
For example:
  010_x2goserver-statistics
  020_x2goserver-mail-notify
  021_x2goserver-monitoring
  etc.pp.
.SH RETURN VALUES
As exitcode \fBx2goserver-run-extensions\fR always returns 0 and pretends to be permanently happy :-).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBx2gostartagent(8)\fR, \fBx2goruncommand(8)\fR, \fBx2goresume-session(8)\fR, \fBx2gosuspend-session(8)\fR and \fBx2goterminate-session(8)\fR.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual has been written by Mike Gabriel <mike.gabriel@das-netzwerkteam.de> for the X2Go project
(http://www.x2go.org).
